Title: About

----

Text:

I am a designer, developer, and podcaster. I am currently living in Frankfurt am Main, Germany. My natural habitat is at the intersection of design, development, and product management.

Right now I'm working at (link: https://bryter.com text: BRYTER), where I focus on building our open-source design system called (link: https://gitlab.com/bliss-design-system text: Bliss). Before BRYTER I have been working for companies like (link: https://www.clark.de text: Clark), (link: https://www.fastbill.com text: FastBill) and (link: https://motus.app/en/index.html text: REICHHART). Experiencing all these different industries taught me a lot about the work I do today. In my spare time, I work on different (link: /portfolio#selected-projects text: side projects), (link: /portfolio#open-source-projects text: open-source projects) and co-host two podcasts.

(link: https://bandbreite.fm text: Bandbreite) is a group podcast with friends from university (where the podcast originated). It's focused on general tech and our experiences as designers and developers.

(link: https://sprachnachrichten.fm text: Sprachnachrichten) is a podcast focused on productivity and self-improvement in the digital space. It started in 2020, and I'm happy to be co-hosting this podcast (link: https://arne.me text: with a good friend) of mine.

If you want to get in touch, feel free to find all the different ways to reach out on my (link: /elsewhere text: elsewhere) page.

----

Experience:

- 
  company: BRYTER
  time: 'July 2019 - Present'
  location: Remote
  summary: |
    (link: https://bryter.com text: BRYTER) is a no-code building platform to create services and automate complex workflows. With BRYTER experts can make their knowledge available to everyone.
    
    Since starting working at BRYTER, I focused on building and leading the internal design system, Bliss. Our design system helps our cross-functional teams to develop features more consistently, efficiently and accessible. I tend to switch roles between Designer, Developer and Product Manager for Bliss to support where I can contribute best.
    
    Besides Bliss, I've also supported different teams at BRYTER with explorations or designs for new features. I had the chance to help with different areas of the product like our admin console, editor or services.
    
    I've contributed and implemented team methodologies like design critiques and improved design-development collaboration.
- 
  company: Clark
  time: 'April 2019 - July 2019'
  location: Frankfurt am Main, Germany
  summary: 'During my brief time at (link: https://www.clark.de text: Clark) I supported the team with visual design work for the white-label product. Besides that, I contributed and confirm the needs (from a design perspective) to move Clark into a stage to branch out to different countries like Austria.'
- 
  company: FastBill
  time: 'April 2018 - April 2019'
  location: Frankfurt am Main, Germany
  summary: |
    (link: https://www.fastbill.com text: FastBill) is a German bookkeeping SaaS service with a huge competitor landscape. FastBill specialized on supporting small or independent business.
    
    As a solo designer I wore different hats and supported different initiatives and projects. One of my big projects was the concept and development of the new “advance VAT return” (USt-VA) feature. This feature helped our customers in executing a recurring tax tasks more quickly and safely.
    
    Other parts of my focus were on the onboarding experience. Additionally, I supported the reframing of the company vision with workshops, concepts and initial prototypes to confirm and test ideas.
- 
  company: REICHHART digital logistics
  time: 'August 2015 - April 2018'
  location: Frankfurt am Main, Germany
  summary: |
    I joined the team very early on as a Product Designer, working on their Web and Android applications.
    
    My role was broad in scope and I moved between research, concepts, high-fidelity prototypes and frontend code to support our web development team.
    
    After some month, I established and later led the development of the internal design system for both, Web and Android. The component library, which I used as a base to develop a CSS library, was the basis for the development team.