Title: About

----

Slogan: Jan Früchtl is a hybrid design engineer, working on accessible user experiences and scalable design systems at BRYTER.

----

Intro:

I am a designer, developer, and podcaster. I am currently living in Frankfurt am Main, Germany. My natural habitat is at the intersection of design, development, and product management. This is where I feel most comfortable and can contribute best.

Right now, I'm working at BRYTER, where I'm focused on building our open-source design system called Bliss. Before BRYTER I have been working for companies like Clark, FastBill and REICHHART.

In my spare time, I work on different side projects, open-source projects and co-host two podcasts.

Bandbreite is a group podcast with friends from university (where the podcast originated). It's focused on general tech and our experiences as designers and developers.

Sprachnachrichten is a podcast focused on productivity and self-improvement in the digital space. It started in 2020, and I'm happy to be co-hosting this podcast with a good friend of mine.

If you want to get in touch, feel free to find all the different ways to reach out on my elsewhere page.

----

Experience:

- 
  title: Design Systems Lead at BRYTER
  time: 'October 2020 - Present'
  location: Remote
  summary: >
    Focused on building the internal design
    system, Bliss. Our design system helps
    our cross-functional teams to develop
    features more consistently, efficiently
    and accessible. I tend to switch roles
    between Designer, Developer and Product
    Manager for Bliss to support where I can
    contribute best.
  company: BRYTER
- 
  title: Product Designer at BRYTER
  time: 'July 2019 - October 2020'
  location: Remote
  summary: >
    Focused on supporting different
    cross-functional teams at BRYTER with
    early explorations and concepts for new
    features. Worked with different areas of
    the product like our admin console,
    editor or services. Started internal
    design systems efforts and implemented
    team methodologies like design critiques
    and improved design-development
    collaboration.
  company: BRYTER
- 
  title: Product Designer at Clark
  time: 'April 2019 - July 2019'
  location: Frankfurt am Main, Germany
  summary: >
    I supported the team with visual design
    work for the white-label product.
    Besides that, I contributed and confirm
    the needs to move Clark into a stage to
    branch out to different countries like
    Austria.
  company: Clark
- 
  title: Product Designer at FastBill
  time: 'April 2018 - April 2019'
  location: Frankfurt am Main, Germany
  summary: |
    As a solo designer, I wore different hats and supported different initiatives and projects. One of my big projects was the concept and development of the new “advance VAT return” (USt-VA) feature. This feature helped our customers in executing a recurring tax tasks more quickly and safely.
    
    Other parts of my focus were on the onboarding experience. Additionally, I supported the reframing of the company vision with workshops, concepts and initial prototypes to confirm and test ideas.
  company: FastBill
- 
  title: Product Designer at REICHHART
  time: 'August 2015 - April 2018'
  location: Frankfurt am Main, Germany
  summary: >
    Working on the design across their Web
    and Android applications. Moved between
    research, concepts, high-fidelity
    prototypes and frontend code to support
    the development team. Led the
    development of the internal design
    system for both, Web and Android.
  company: REICHHART digital logistics